Panic with error codes. (#10013)
ethereum/solidity: docs/control-structures.rst

Exceptions can be caught with the ``try``/``catch`` statement.

Exceptions can contain data that is passed back to the caller.
This data consists of a 4-byte selector and subsequent :ref:`ABI-encoded<abi>` data.

> The selector is computed in the same way as a function selector as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selector is computed in the same way as a function selector, i.e.,
```

the first four bytes of the keccak256-hash of a function
signature - in this case an error signature.

> Currently, Solidity supports to error signatures: ``Error(string)``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, Solidity supports two error signatures: ``Error(string)``
```

and ``Panic(uint256)``. The first ("error") is used for "regular" error conditions
while the second ("panic") is used for errors that should not be present in bug-free code.

Panic via ``assert`` and Error via ``require``
----------------------------------------------

The convenience functions ``assert`` and ``require`` can be used to check for conditions and throw an exception
if the condition is not met.

The ``assert`` function creates an error of type ``Panic(uint256)``.
The same error is created by the compiler in certain situations as listed below.

Assert should only be used to test for internal
errors, and to check invariants. Properly functioning code should
never create a Panic, not even on invalid external input.

> If this happens there

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this happens, then there
```

is a bug in your contract which you should fix. Language analysis
tools can evaluate your contract to identify the conditions and
function calls which will cause a Panic.

A Panic exception is generated in the following situations.
The error code supplied with the error data indicates the kind of panic.

#. 0x01: If you call ``assert`` with an argument that evaluates to false.
#. 0x11: If an arithmetic operation results in an underflow or overflow.
#. 0x12; If you divide or modulo by zero (e.g. ``5 / 0`` or ``23 % 0``).

> #. 0x21: If you convert a value too big or negative into an enum type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. 0x21: If you convert a value that is too big or negative into an enum type.
```

#. 0x31: If you call ``.pop()`` on an empty array.

> #. 0x32: If you access an array, ``bytesN`` or an array slice at a too large or negative index (i.e. ``x[i]`` where ``i >= x.length`` or ``i < 0``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. 0x32: If you access an array, ``bytesN`` or an array slice at an out-of-bounds or negative index (i.e. ``x[i]`` where ``i >= x.length`` or ``i < 0``).
```

#. 0x41: If you allocate too much memory or create an array that is too large.
#. 0x51: If you call a zero-initialized variable of internal function type.

The ``require`` function either creates an error of type ``Error(string)``

> or ar error without ary error data and it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or an error without any error data and it
```

and ``Panic(uint256)``. The first ("error") is used for "regular" error conditions
while the second ("panic") is used for errors that should not be present in bug-free code.

Panic via ``assert`` and Error via ``require``
----------------------------------------------

The convenience functions ``assert`` and ``require`` can be used to check for conditions and throw an exception
if the condition is not met.

The ``assert`` function creates an error of type ``Panic(uint256)``.
The same error is created by the compiler in certain situations as listed below.

Assert should only be used to test for internal
errors, and to check invariants. Properly functioning code should
never create a Panic, not even on invalid external input.
If this happens there
is a bug in your contract which you should fix. Language analysis
tools can evaluate your contract to identify the conditions and
function calls which will cause a Panic.

A Panic exception is generated in the following situations.
The error code supplied with the error data indicates the kind of panic.

#. 0x01: If you call ``assert`` with an argument that evaluates to false.

> #. 0x11: If an arithmetic operation results in underflow or overflow outside of an ``unchecked { ... }`` block.

Reviewer 2: Was there discussion about potentially splitting underflow and overflow into two different errors?

Author: Do you think it would have a benefit?

Reviewer 2: Not necessarily. If it makes it easier like this we can leave it

#. 0x12; If you divide or modulo by zero (e.g. ``5 / 0`` or ``23 % 0``).
#. 0x21: If you convert a value too big or negative into an enum type.
#. 0x31: If you call ``.pop()`` on an empty array.
#. 0x32: If you access an array, ``bytesN`` or an array slice at a too large or negative index (i.e. ``x[i]`` where ``i >= x.length`` or ``i < 0``).
#. 0x41: If you allocate too much memory or create an array that is too large.
#. 0x51: If you call a zero-initialized variable of internal function type.

The ``require`` function either creates an error of type ``Error(string)``

> or ar error without ary error data and it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or an error without any error data and it
```

    }

Internally, Solidity performs a revert operation (instruction
``0xfd``). This causes
the EVM to revert all changes made to the state. The reason for reverting
is that there is no safe way to continue execution, because an expected effect
did not occur. Because we want to keep the atomicity of transactions, the
safest action is to revert all changes and make the whole transaction
(or at least call) without effect.

In both cases, the caller can react on such failures using ``try``/``catch``, but
the changes in the caller will always be reverted.

.. note::

    Panic exceptions used to use the ``invalid`` opcode before Solidity 0.8.0,
    which consumed all gas available to the call.

>     Exceptions that use ``require`` do not consume any gas starting from the Metropolis release.

Reviewer 2: Wait, do not consume any gas? Or any remaining gas?

Author: ```suggestion
    Exceptions that use ``require`` used to consume all gas until before the Metropolis release.
```
?

Reviewer 2: Sounds good

                return (0, false);
            } catch (bytes memory /*lowLevelData*/) {

>                 // This is executed in case revert() was used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                // This is executed in case revert() was used.
```

The string ``Error`` is currently parsed as is and is not treated as an identifier.

The clause ``catch (bytes memory lowLevelData)`` is executed if the error signature

> does not match any other clause, or if there was an error during decoding of the error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
does not match any other clause, if there was an error while decoding the error
```
